Add documentation for CA1869 (#36776)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1869.md

## How to fix violations

You can use the singleton pattern to avoid creating a new <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions> instance every time your code is executed.

## Example

The following code snippet shows two violations of CA1869:

```csharp
static string Serialize<T>(T value)
{
    JsonSerializerOptions jsonOptions = new() 
    { 
        WriteIndented = true
    };

    return JsonSerializer.Serialize(value, jsonOptions);
}

static T Deserialize<T>(string json)
{
    return JsonSerializer.Deserialize(value, new JsonSerializeOptions { AllowTrailingCommas = true });
}
```

The following code snippet fixes the violations:

```csharp
private static readonly JsonSerializerOptions s_writeOptions = new()
{
    WriteIndented = true
};

private static readonly JsonSerializerOptions s_readOptions = new()
{
    AllowTrailingCommas = true
};

static string Serialize<T>(T value)
{
    return JsonSerializer.Serialize(value, s_writeOptions);
}

static T Deserialize<T>(string json)
{
    return JsonSerializer.Deserialize(value, s_readOptions);
}
```

> ## When to suppress warnings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are further calls to `Serialize` or `Deserialize`, `s_writeOptions` or `s_readOptions` should be reused, respectively.

## When to suppress warnings
```

---
title: "CA1869: Cache and reuse 'JsonSerializerOptions' instances"
description: "Learn about code analyzer rule CA1869 - Cache and reuse 'JsonSerializerOptions' instances"
ms.date: 08/21/2023
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
 - CA1869
 - AvoidSingleUseOfLocalJsonSerializerOptions
helpviewer_keywords:
 - CA1869
author: Jozkee
ms.author: dacantu
---

# CA1869: Cache and reuse 'JsonSerializerOptions' instances

|                                     | Value                                  |
| ----------------------------------- |----------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1869                                 |
| **Category**                        | [Performance](performance-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                           |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                                     |

## Cause

A local instance of <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions> is used once as the `options` argument of a <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer.Serialize> or <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer.Deserialize> call.

## Rule description

> Using a local instance of <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions> for serialization or deserialization can substantially degrade the performance of your application if your code executes multiple times since System.Text.Json internally caches serialization releated metadata into the provided instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a local instance of <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions> for serialization or deserialization can substantially degrade the performance of your application if your code executes multiple times since System.Text.Json internally caches serialization-related metadata into the provided instance.
```

## How to fix violations

You can use the singleton pattern to avoid creating a new <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions> instance every time your code is executed.

## Example

The following code snippet shows two violations of CA1869:

```csharp
static string Serialize<T>(T value)
{
    JsonSerializerOptions jsonOptions = new() 
    { 
        WriteIndented = true
    };

    return JsonSerializer.Serialize(value, jsonOptions);
}

static T Deserialize<T>(string json)
{
    return JsonSerializer.Deserialize(value, new JsonSerializeOptions { AllowTrailingCommas = true });
}
```

The following code snippet fixes the violation:

```csharp
private static readonly JsonSerializerOptions s_jsonOptions = new()
{
    WriteIndented = true,
    AllowTrailingCommas = true
};

static string Serialize<T>(T value)
{
    return JsonSerializer.Serialize(value, s_jsonOptions);
}

static T Deserialize<T>(string json)
{
    return JsonSerializer.Deserialize(value, s_jsonOptions);
}
```

> NOTE: in this case we can safely collapse both `JsonSerializerOptions` into one instance because `WriteIndented` acts on serialization and `AllowTrailingCommas` acts on deserialization and hence not affecting the result of both operations. Do not do this if you need to preserve different behaviors on each operation, instead create separate instances while keeping them global for caching purposes e.g:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous example, you can safely collapse both `JsonSerializerOptions` instances into one instance. That's because `WriteIndented` acts on serialization and `AllowTrailingCommas` acts on deserialization, hence only the result of one operation is affected. Don't do this if you need to preserve different behaviors on each operation. Instead, create separate instances but still keep them global for caching purposes, for example:
```

Reviewer 2: > hence only the result of one operation is affected.

Not sure if I understand this correctly. What I am trying to express is: in this case you can collapse both instances and the return values of Serialize and Deserialize will not change. 

Is that being expressed on this paragraph?

Reviewer: I see what you're trying to say, but I'm wondering if we shouldn't just show two instances to begin with to keep it simpler - one for read and one for write.

Reviewer 2: Yes, we can do that, let me update the example.
